Video Title: Metabolic Diseases
Language: English
Basic Transcription:
Metabolic diseases are disorders
that alter the way
the body obtains and uses energy.
These diseases may be caused
by genetic factors,
hormonal changes, or unhealthy habits such as
poor diet or lack of exercise.
They affect vital functions such as
digestion, fat storage, and
blood sugar regulation.
Understanding them is essential to prevent them.
Diabetes mellitus:
One of the most
common metabolic diseases is diabetes mellitus.
In this condition, the body cannot properly regulate
blood glucose levels due to a lack or improper
use of insulin.
If not controlled, it can cause damage
to the eyes, kidneys, and heart.
Obesity:
Obesity occurs when there is an
excessive accumulation of body fat.
This happens because of an imbalance between
the energy we consume and the energy we use.
It also increases the risk of developing
diabetes, hypertension, and heart disease.
Hypothyroidism:
Hypothyroidism occurs when
the thyroid gland does not produce
enough hormones.
This slows down metabolism,
causing fatigue, weight gain, and
a constant feeling of cold.
Dyslipidemias:
Dyslipidemias are characterized by increased
levels of cholesterol or triglycerides in the blood.
Over time, these fats can accumulate
in the arteries, restricting blood
flow and increasing the risk of heart attack.
Risk Factors:
Although some metabolic
diseases have a genetic origin, many
are related to lifestyle.
A diet high in sugars
and fats, lack of exercise,
stress, and lack of sleep are
factors that increase the risk.
Adopting healthy habits can make
a big difference in prevention.
Prevention:
The best way
to prevent metabolic diseases
is to maintain a balanced diet,
rich in vegetables, fruits, and healthy proteins.
It is also important to exercise
regularly, sleep well, and attend
regular medical check-ups.
Small changes can have
a great impact on your health.
In conclusion, metabolic
diseases can be prevented.
Taking care of your body with good habits is
the key to maintaining a healthy
metabolism and a longer, fuller life.
Remember: taking care of your
metabolism is taking care of your health.